feat: Update replication docs (#45825)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/database/replication/bigquery.mdx

---
id: 'bigquery-destination'
title: 'BigQuery Destination'
description: 'Configure BigQuery as an external replication destination.'
subtitle: 'Replicate Supabase Postgres tables to BigQuery.'
sidebar_label: 'BigQuery'
---

<Admonition type="caution" label="Private Alpha">

External replication is currently in private alpha. Access is limited and features may change.

</Admonition>

[BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery) is Google's fully managed data warehouse. You can replicate your database tables to BigQuery for analytics and reporting.

## Prepare GCP resources

Before configuring BigQuery as a destination, set up the following in Google Cloud Platform:

1. **Google Cloud Platform (GCP) account**: [Sign up for GCP](https://cloud.google.com/gcp) if you don't have one

2. **BigQuery dataset**: Create a [BigQuery dataset](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/datasets-intro) in your GCP project
   - Open the BigQuery console in GCP
   - Select your project

>    - Click "Create Dataset"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click *Create Dataset*
```

   - Provide a dataset ID, for example `supabase_replication`

3. **GCP service account key**: Create a [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-create-delete) with appropriate permissions

>    - Go to IAM & Admin → Service Accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Go to **IAM & Admin → Service Accounts**
```

>    - Click "Create Service Account"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click **Create Service Account**
```

>    - Grant the **BigQuery Data Editor** role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Grant the "BigQuery Data Editor" role
```

   - Create and download the JSON key file

Required permissions:

- `bigquery.datasets.get`
- `bigquery.tables.create`
- `bigquery.tables.get`
- `bigquery.tables.getData`
- `bigquery.tables.update`
- `bigquery.tables.updateData`

## Configure BigQuery as a destination

> 1. Navigate to [Database](/dashboard/project/_/database/replication) → **Replication** in your Supabase Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the [**Database > Replication**](/dashboard/project/_/database/replication)  section of the Dashboard
```

This is something of a standard we are slowly starting to roll out

     </Admonition>

   - **Service Account Key**: Your GCP service account key in JSON format

5. Optionally expand **Advanced settings** for BigQuery-specific performance tuning:

   | Setting                  | Default            | Description                                                                                                                                                                |
   | ------------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | **Connection pool size** | `4` connections    | Size of the BigQuery Storage Write API connection pool. More connections allow more parallel writes, but consume more resources.                                           |
   | **Maximum staleness**    | No staleness limit | Maximum allowed age, in minutes, for BigQuery cached metadata before reading base tables. Lower values improve freshness. Higher values can reduce query cost and latency. |

6. Click **Create and start** to begin replication

> Your replication pipeline will now start copying data from your database to BigQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your replication pipeline now starts copying data from your database to BigQuery.
```
